The Ramp Metering Game ("Stauvermeidungsspiel")


Interactive action:  

Control the traffic light metering the ramp inflow to the freeway. No
yellow phases and no minimum green times apply here, i.e., one can let
pass a single vehicle at a time. 


Externally given:

A fixed traffic demand curve on the freeway and the secondary road 
with a "rush-hour" peak. A fixed percentage of vehicles on the
secondary road (e.g., 50%) turns right and enters the freeway via the traffic
light. The traffic flow is set so that congestion occurs on the
freeway if the traffic light is left green all the time.

Objective: 

Delay the jam on the freeway by controlling the inflow with the
metering traffic light. Simultaneously avoid too long waiting times
behind the light, and definitely a spillover to the
secondary road. Game is over if the rush-hour is over and 
all vehicles are served, i.e., the
network is empty. High-scores list as in the Traffic Lights
Master. Besides the totsal playing time, one could also score by total
travelling time. This increases the negative weights of freeeway
congestion and shifts the optimal control strategy to generally more
"green"


What makes the game interesting:

The twofold and contradicting objectives: "Avoid jams on the freeway",
and "avoid waiting times and spillovers at the secondary network". If a spillover
happens, this will also obstruct all vehicles intending to drive
straight ahead on the secondary road (see the figure). The ensuing gridlock situation
leads to a massive congestion on the secondary road which takes long
to dissolve by switching the metering light to green. (The resulting
rush of entering vehicles, however, will certainly lead to a breakdown
on the freeway ...) Notice also the delay between switching the light
to green, and movements of the vehicles at the back of the
queue. (the position of the starting vehicles  propagates upstream with 15 km/h). In
the meantime, additional entering vehicles may cause the gridlock ...

 



