
Game: Traffic Light Master ("Ampelspiel")

Interactive action:  

Control the traffic lights of the two
intersections by klicking the "switch lights" buttons. Each klick on one of the two "switch lights" button
instantaneously initializes a change
of the "phase", i.e., of the "green" directions (Up/down or
left/right). However, due to safety constraints, an intermediate
phase of yellow lights of typically 3 seconds ("Zwischenzeit") must be introduced
between the two phases. Neither
vehicle can pass the intersection during the intermediate phases.

Externally given:

A fixed traffic demand curve with a "rush-hour" peak containing a total of n
cars (e.g., n=200). Much more traffic on the horizontal main street than
on the vertical secondary streets

Objective: 

Switch the lights so as to serve the n vehicles as fast as
possible. Game is over if all vehicles are served, i.e., there are no
remaining vehicles in the network.
The best serving times appear in the "High Scores" list.

What makes the game interesting:

 The strategy is multi-level with conflicting effects
such that the optimal strategy is nontrivial:

* for light traffic (beginning) one may try to serve each vehicle (the
  road length is defined such that the travel time from the entry
  points  to the
  intersections is greater than the intermediate phase so this is
  possible)

* for intermediate traffic, green waves may be appropriate. For a
  suitable cycle time, one can even make attempts at bi-directional
  green waves (e.g. 20 s free travel time between intersections <=>
  cycle time = 40 s)

* For high traffic demand, the mainroad should be given priority even
  if the queue on the secondary roads become longer: If the mainroad
  spills over, there is a gridlock, and the secondary directions
  are blocked even if they have "green".

* Finally, longer cycle
  times give more total traffic throughput (because of the
  intermediate times) but are incompatible with
  bidirectional green waves. This strategy is appropriate especially
  during the end-game phase where no new vehicles are introduced and the player
  must empty the network.

