The Routing Game ("Navi-Spiel")


Interactive action:  

Control the routing recommendation by clicking at the toggle switch
"Use Deviation" - "Use Main Road" (the text changes with each
click). When the routing recommendation is "Use Deviation", all
vehicles on the right lane use the deviation. The vehicles on all
other lanes (and all vehicles if "Use Main Road" is active) remain on
the freeway.


Externally given:

A fixed traffic demand curve with a "rush-hour" peak containing a total of n
cars (e.g., n=500). The main road ("freeway") has a road-works
bottleneck. At peak demand, the inflow exceeds the freeway
capacity. It is set such that even the best player should not manage
to avoid all breakdowns.  The capacity of the "village bottleneck"
is half the capacity of one freeway lane (or less).

Objective: 

Switch the routing recommendation so as to optimally use the capacity
of the two roads. Game is over if all vehicles are served, i.e., the
network is empty. High-scores list as in the Traffic Lights Master.

What makes the game interesting:

The delay between decision time (when the vehicles pass the
location of the blue "decision button") and the effects of the
decision (when vehicle pass the respective bottlenecks. During this
time, the congestion(s) behind the bottlenecks may have accumulated or
dissolved. Thus, the naive strategy "Use the route where the congested
zone is the shortest" will lead to oscillations. 
The game should be designed that the lure to use the
deviation is great, and that the secondary-network congestions are
severe (the capacity of the "village bottleneck" is small) maybe even
resulting in a spill-over at the deviation leading to an additional
off-ramp bottleneck at the main road. However, the capacity drop of
the freeway bottleneck is much more pronounced than that of the
village bottleneck. Therefore, it may be useful to delay a mainroad
breakdown as long as possible even if this provokes an earlier
breakdown on the secondary network. (In fact, this is the basic
strategy of the ramp metering: Use metering to prevent a breakdown; do
not meter if a breakdown already has occurred). 

By the way: A "ramp metering game" (in a way, the reverse of the
routing game) can be devised as well.



